## A. Vocabulary: describing a town/city

### Exercise 1: 
1) A ***crowded*** part of town is full of people
2) A ***remote*** village is a long way from any towns or cities
3) A ***leafy*** part of town is pleasant and has a lot of trees
4) A ***fashionable*** part of town is popular
5) A ***quiet*** part of town does not have many people or cars
6) A ***noisy*** street is very loud, so it might be difficult to sleep if you live there
7) A ***modern*** part of of town is very new
8) A ***historic*** area of town is old and has important buildings in it

### Exercise 2:
1) I come from tourist town by the seaside. Every summer the beach is full of visitors.
2) My house is in the suburbs, so it's part of the city but away from city center. Many of the people who work in the city live here.
3) We live on the outskirts of the city - it takes just five minutes to walk from our house to the countryside
4) I'd love to live in the countryside, away from all the noise and traffic of the city.
5) Our house is in the village in the mountains. There are only about 30 houses and two shops.
6) The city where I was born is on the coast. There are always a lot of ships from around the world in the port.
7) I live in the city center, which is great. It means I can walk to restaurants, cinemas and museums. But it does get very noisy sometimes.
8) My town is in the south of my country, not far from mountains.

### Exercise 3:

When I was a teenager, I didn't like living with my parents, so I ***left*** home when I was 20 years old.

At first I ***rented*** a room in a flat - it wasn't my flat, so I had to pay money every month to live there. I didn't live there alone - I **shared** the flat with three other people. It was horrible. The other people never cleaned the flat, and we had a lot of arguments. So I ***moved*** out after a couple of weeks and **stayed** with some friends for about a week. Then I ***moved*** in with my brother and his family. They owned a big house in the suburbs. I lived with them for about six months, but then they ***moved*** house and went to live in a different city. So I had to find a new place to live. In the end, I moved ***back*** in with my parents. It's much nicer now than when I first lived here. But now I'm saving money to ***buy*** a flat - hopefully i'll have enough in a few years.


### Exercise 4:
Places to live:
- housing estate
- residential area
- tower block

Places to buy things:
- shopping center
- retail park
- department store

Places to relax and have fun:
- leisure center
- cinema
- theatre

Places to learn about your city's past:
- library
- historic castle
- museum

### Exercise 5:
A cottage is a small house, usually in the countryside
A neighborhood is a part of a town or city where people live.
A stream is a very small river
A pond is an extremely small lake.
A path is a narrow road for people to walk along.
A town is bigger than a village but not as big as a city.
A hill is lower than a mountain and easier to climb
A wood is a group of trees.

## B. Grammar: Past Simple
### Exercise 1:
1) It was a beautiful evening, so we ***walked*** along the beach
2) I was born in Spain, but my parents ***moved*** to Switzerland when I was a baby
3) Last week, we ***visited*** the History Museum. It was really interesting.
4) We ***planned*** to spend our holiday in the countryside, but we spend almost all the time on the beach.
5) There isn't a university in my town, so I ***studied*** in a big city.
6) I ***enjoyed*** my trip to London, but there were a lot of tourists everywhere.
7) When we lived in the city center, we went to the theatre every week, but we ***stopped*** going after we moved to the suburbs.
8) I ***tried*** to contact you, but we were in a very remote house and our phones didn't work.
9) We ***stayed*** in a lovely guest house by the seaside - it was smaller than a hotel, but it had everything we needed.
10) We moved to the countryside when I was teenager. My parents loved it, but I ***preferred*** living in the city.

### Exercise 2:
1) My parents ***bought*** their house 20 years ago.
2) It ***was*** quite expensive, but the bank ***lent*** them half the money so they **could**** afford to buy it.
3) It ***was*** a small house, but it ***felt*** OK when my brother and I ***were*** children.
4) But as we ***grew*** older, the house ***became*** too small.
5) After about ten years, my parents ***built*** a new room at the back of the house.
6) But then my brother ***left*** home and the house ***was*** too big again!
7) House prices ***rose*** very quickly.
8) So when my parents ***sold*** their house last year, they ***made*** a lot of money.

### Exercise 3: 
1) We ***couldn't*** find their house for hours. It was in the middle of nowhere.
2) I ***didn't like*** living in the city center - it was too crowded.
3) Our old flat ***didn't have*** a balcony, but our new flat's got one.
4) There ***weren't*** many other children in the part of town where I grew up.
5) I ***didn't see*** my grandparents often when I was young because they lived a long way away.
6) We ***didn't need*** a car when we lived in the city, but now we're in the suburbs, we have two!
7) It ***wasn't*** a very fashionable neighborhood, but I liked living there.

## C. Reading

### Exercise 1: 
1. This happens when a type of bird, animal or plant doesn't exist anymore: to become extinct
2. To become smaller in size or number: to decrease
3. To follow and kill an animal for food or sport: to hunt
4. To put something (e.g. food) in ice, salt, sugar or chemicals, so it can stay in good condition: to preserve
5. All the people or animals that live in one place or area: a population
6. All the living things in an area and the way they affect each other and the environment: an ecosystem
7. The frame of bones supporting human or animal body: a skeleton.

### Exercise 2: 
1) Pollution harms all the plants, fish and animals in the ecosystem.
2) The tutor showed the skeleton to the medical students and asked which small bones were missing.
3) We expect the number of people living in the countryside will decrease as families move to the cities.
4) There are so few polar bears left that it is possible they will soon become extinct.
5) The population of my city has risen to 8 million people.
6) Lions often hunt other animals at night.
7) Nowadays, most people use fridges to preserve their food.

### Exercise 3:
1) build or create - make
2) inside or within - the contents of
3) a pair of - both
4) not as high as - lower than
5) a little of an amount of - some
6) decrease or fall - get smaller
7) might or may - a possibility

### Exercise 4:
1) The number of mammoths started to fall when their ***habitat*** got smaller.
2) Humans used mammoths for food, and to make art and ***tools***
3) Scientists have examined the contents of mammoths' ***stomachs***.
4) Mammoths had smaller ***ears*** than modern elephants.
5) Some scientists think that a 'new' mammoth should have some ***freedom***.
6) Both elephants and mammoths are ***social*** animals.
7) There is a possibility that a 'new' mammoth could get a ***disease***.

